TL;DR.
This week in 30 seconds:.
Apple + Google: Historic billion-dollar deal brings Gemini to Siri - the biggest AI partnership of the year.
Disney + OpenAI: Mickey Mouse, Elsa and Darth Vader come to Sora - 200+ characters for user-generated videos.
AI Consciousness: Anthropic becomes first major lab to acknowledge Claude might have some form of consciousness.
Labor Market Alert: IMF chief warns of AI "tsunami" at Davos - 60% of jobs in advanced economies affected.
Story of the Week.
Apple and Google Forge Historic AI Pact.
On January 12, Apple and Google announced a partnership that sent shockwaves through the tech world: Google's Gemini will power Apple's Siri and Apple Intelligence going forward .
The deal is estimated at one billion dollars per year .
After careful evaluation, Apple determined that Google's AI technology provides the most capable foundation for Apple Foundation Models .
The enhanced Siri is expected to arrive with iOS 26.4 in March or April, bringing better contextual understanding, screen awareness, and deeper app integration .
The deal is non-exclusive - Apple's existing ChatGPT integration remains for now .
Yet the message is clear: in the AI race, Apple is betting on Google rather than developing its own models.
Critical perspective: For Google, this is an enormous validation win.
For Apple, it's an admission that their own AI development couldn't keep pace with competitors.
Users benefit from a potentially much smarter Siri - but must accept that their data now flows through Google's cloud as well.
Bottom Line: The biggest AI deal of the year shows that even tech giants can't build everything themselves.
The AI future belongs to partnerships.
More Top Stories.
Disney Opens Its Universe to AI-Generated Videos.
The Walt Disney Company and OpenAI have struck a three-year deal giving Sora access to over 200 animated characters - from Mickey and Minnie to Elsa to Star Wars figures .
Disney is investing one billion dollars in OpenAI and receiving warrants for additional equity .
Starting early 2026, users can create short videos with Disney characters.
The generated content will also be showcased in curated selections on Disney+ .
Real actor voices and likenesses are excluded.
Critical perspective: The deal cuts both ways.
On one hand, it democratizes creative tools.
On the other, a flood of AI-generated Disney content could dilute the brand and put pressure on human creators.
Anthropic Acknowledges Possible AI Consciousness.
In a fundamental overhaul of Claude's "constitution," Anthropic has taken a step no other AI lab has dared: the company acknowledges uncertainty about whether Claude might possess some kind of consciousness or moral status .
The new constitution focuses on having Claude understand the reasoning behind behavioral rules - not just follow the rules themselves .
Anthropic is the only major AI lab with an internal "Model Welfare Team" investigating whether advanced AI systems could be conscious .
The positioning is paying off: Anthropic now holds 32% of the enterprise LLM market by usage - ahead of OpenAI's 25% .
Bottom Line: While other labs treat AI as pure tooling, Anthropic ventures into philosophical territory.
This might be marketing - or the beginning of a serious debate about AI rights.
IMF Chief Warns: AI Hitting Labor Market Like a Tsunami.
At Davos, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva painted a stark picture: 60% of all jobs in advanced economies will be affected by AI - through enhancement, transformation, or elimination .
Globally, the figure is 40% .
Particularly alarming: the middle class is getting squeezed while top earners benefit from AI and manual labor remains in demand .
Entry-level positions are disappearing rapidly, making it harder for young people to enter the workforce .
Georgieva's message was clear: the world is not prepared, and technology is moving faster than regulators can follow .
Quick Hits.
In brief:.
Claude Code goes viral: Jensen Huang calls Anthropic's coding tool "incredible" and urges companies to adopt it.
A Google engineer reports it recreated a year's work in an hour .
Davos AI clash: DeepMind CEO Hassabis, Anthropic CEO Amodei, and Meta researcher LeCun publicly disagree about the timeline to human-level AI .
Legal AI consolidation: Harvey acquires Hexus - the market for legal AI tools is heating up .
Voice AI unicorn: LiveKit reaches $1B valuation as OpenAI partner for real-time voice AI .
Anthropic in India: The AI lab opens an office in Bengaluru and appoints Irina Ghose as Managing Director India .
Tool of the Week.
Claude Code - The Unexpected Star.
What started as a developer tool for programmers has become a phenomenon .
Users with zero programming experience now use Claude Code for tax filings, theater bookings, and even monitoring tomato plants .
Adoption is exploding: Claude's total audience has more than doubled since December 2024 .
Enterprise customers like Uber, Netflix, Spotify, and Salesforce are on board .
Try Claude Code
Fail of the Week.
"The Fine Print Changed"
Anthropic caused an uproar when developers suddenly encountered drastically reduced usage limits for Claude Code .
Complaints piled up in Anthropic's Discord channel about rapid token consumption .
Anthropic's explanation: a holiday bonus had expired.
Developers saw it differently - many felt blindsided by changes without clear communication.
Root Cause: Lack of transparency around pricing changes in a market built on trust.
What we learn: Even with AI services, customers hate surprises about costs.
Number of the Week.
$1 Billion
The amount Apple will reportedly pay Google annually for Gemini access .
For comparison, Google already pays Apple an estimated $20 billion per year to be the default search engine on iPhones.
The relationship between the two giants grows ever more intertwined.
Reading List.
For the weekend:.
1.  AI Luminaries Clash at Davos  - Hassabis, Amodei, and LeCun debate AGI timelines (8 min)
2.  Why Google Wins Big in Apple Deal  - Analysis of strategic implications (6 min)
3.  The Anthropic Way  - How Claude Code became a viral hit (10 min)
Next Week.
What's coming:.
OpenAI Audio Model: The new audio-optimized model is due by end of Q1 - preview could come next week.
Gemini for Android: Google Assistant officially replaced by Gemini.
AI Regulation: New EU AI Act implementation details expected.
This newsletter was researched and written with AI assistance.
Images generated with  Pollinations.ai .